general.md, before:

### General rules

1. Each bout is performed for a set amount of time or until a set amount of hits This is achieved through a series of separate, independent assaults.

2. Fencing time is the time required to perform one simple fencing action. In judging hits, referees will count immediate actions that start up to the moment of the first hit, as relevant actions.

3. When only one of the fencers receives a hit within one period of fencing time, the fencer who was hit is called one point against.

4. In case both fencers hit within one period of fencing time, three different tactical situations are defined in the rules.

5. A simultaneous hit is the result of a similar conception and execution of both fencers at the same time. In these cases, both fencers are called a point against.

6. A double hit occurs when both fencers get hit within a period of fencing time, but are not simultaneous actions, are evaluated according to the rules or each specific weapon.

7. An after-action is a double hit situation, where the fencer at fault starts a counter action (or the finishing move of a compound action) at or after the moment of receiving a hit. After-actions do not score, and do not nullify the hit received.

8. Hits can be achieved by following offensive actions:
   1. Cut - using the edge or the flat of the blade towards the whole valid area. A cut must be performed with a visually distinctive trajectory (preparation more than 45 degrees) and must correspond with an action that would probably cause the target area to be wounded, e.g. hitting head with the flat surface of the sword also counts
   2. Thrust - using the point of the blade towards the whole valid area. A valid thrust must be performed in such a way that it would be visually distinctive, e.g. the blade will be bent at the end of the action and the point will traverse approx. at least 20cm.
   3. Slice - using the edge of the sword against the whole valid area. A slice must be a movement which is defined by pushing or pulling of the blade against the valid area in a visually distinctive way.
   4. Strike - using the pommel of the weapon against the opponent’s uncovered part of mask.
9. The referee may call an action as a valid hit, when a weapon action results in a passively constraining position for the opponent, for a considerable time during which the opponent is unable to break free. This may be the result of of grappling, locks involving the weapon, or opposing actions that restrain the opponent’s weapon movement for a considerable time, until the referee finds all criteria of dominance met, and calls “Halt!”. Hits received while this dominant position is upheld are not considered valid. However, dominance can not be applied to situations, when the opponent can practically break free and initiate valid actions, even if by some active measures, the weapon contact is not completely broken. It is up to the referee’s discretion to judge the validity of dominance actions.

10. Against thrusts, and cuts with the edge, the flat, or the back edge of the blade, the object of the parry is to prevent hits made by the opponent arriving on the valid target; therefore:
    1. The parry is properly carried out when, before the completion of the attack, it prevents the arrival of that attack by closing the line in which that attack is to finish.
    2. When a parry is properly executed, the attack by the opponent must be declared parried, and judged as such by the Referee, even if, as a result of its flexibility, the tip of the opponent’s weapon makes contact with the target.
11. Unintentional invalid hit can annul subsequent valid hits upon referees discretion.

## Close quarter combat

Close quarter combat and grappling are allowed with the following regulations:

1. The Referee may call 'Halt!' after an unsuccessful period of grappling.
2. Grappling on the opponent's blade is allowed, if the blade is controlled. Seizing of the blade needs to be momentary, and followed by an immediate 'clean' hit to score a point. If the competitor can not achieve a hit consequently to seizing the blade, the Referee will call 'Halt!' and award no points. Failing to control the blade will be counted as a point against the competitor who attempted to enter grappling.

3. Disarming is allowed and scores a point, unless the disarmed fencer immediately (before the referee calls 'Halt!') controls the opponent's weapon and enters grappling.

4. If a fencer accidentally drops the weapon, or falls without the opponent's interaction, the Referee shall call 'Halt!'. A hit that started before the fencer obviously lost the weapon should be counted as valid even if it arrives afterwards, but in the spirit of sportsmanship, no intentional new attack should be initiated if the opponent has fallen or lost the weapon.

5. Grappling actions that score a point are:
    1. take-downs and throws followed/accompanied by a simple and immediate hit with the weapon (within a period of fencing time)
    2. controlling the opponent via grappling with or without the weapon, or until the Referee calls 'Halt!'
6. Ground action is not allowed, the Referee shall call “Halt!” when one of the fencers falls to the ground, or whenever the referee is unable to judge the action any more, or when a reasonable time has passed for dominance to apply.

### Forbidden actions

1. Neck-wrenching, lifting the opponent off the ground, full application of joint locks, small-joint manipulation, or other potentially dangerous wrestling techniques, punching, kicking, violent jostling, and throwing the weapon are strictly forbidden.

2. Excessive force, brutality or unnecessary violence are forbidden.

3. Hitting the back of the head the spine, the back of the knee or the foot is forbidden.

4. Turning the head or covering a valid target with a non-valid one belongs to the first group of offences.

5. Uncontrolled attacks without touching opponents body or weapon which hits the arena floor are evaluated as first group of offences.

6. It is forbidden to hit with the cross-guard; and in all circumstances, to hit the back of the head, spine and back of the knee, and the foot of the opponent and will be penalised.

Commit message:

refactor. Rearrange some rules where they better fit. Move parry description back to Longsword, because there is no right to riposte in other weapons.

general.md, after:

### General rules

1. Each bout is performed for a set amount of time or until a set amount of hits This is achieved through a series of separate, independent assaults.

2. Fencing time is the time required to perform one simple fencing action. In judging hits, referees will count immediate actions that start up to the moment of the first hit, as relevant actions.

3. When only one of the fencers receives a hit within one period of fencing time, the fencer who was hit is called one point against.

4. In case both fencers hit within one period of fencing time, three different tactical situations are defined in the rules.

5. A simultaneous hit is the result of a similar conception and execution of both fencers at the same time. In these cases, both fencers are called a point against.

6. A double hit occurs when both fencers get hit within a period of fencing time, but are not simultaneous actions, are evaluated according to the rules or each specific weapon.

7. An after-action is a double hit situation, where the fencer at fault starts a counter action (or the finishing move of a compound action) at or after the moment of receiving a hit. After-actions do not score, and do not nullify the hit received.

8. Hits can be achieved by following offensive actions:
   1. Cut - carried out with the edge or the flat of the blade on any valid target. A cut must be performed with a visually distinctive trajectory (preparation more than 45 degrees) and must correspond with an action that would probably cause the target area to be wounded, e.g. hitting head with the flat surface of the sword also counts
   2. Thrust - carried out with the point of the weapon on any valid target. A valid thrust must be performed in such a way that it would be visually distinctive, e.g. the blade will be bent at the end of the action and the point will traverse at least 20cm.
   3. Slice - carried out with the edge of the weapon on any valid target. A slice must be a movement which is defined by pushing or pulling of the blade against the valid area in a visually distinctive way.
   4. Strike - using the pommel of the weapon against the opponent’s uncovered part of mask.

9. The referee may call an action as a valid hit, when a weapon action results in a passively constraining position for the opponent, for a considerable time during which the opponent is unable to break free. This may be the result of of grappling, locks involving the weapon, or opposing actions that restrain the opponent’s weapon movement for a considerable time, until the referee finds all criteria of dominance met, and calls “Halt!”. Hits received while this dominant position is upheld are not considered valid. However, dominance can not be applied to situations, when the opponent can practically break free and initiate valid actions, even if by some active measures, the weapon contact is not completely broken. It is up to the referee’s discretion to judge the validity of dominance actions.

## Close quarter combat

Close quarter combat and grappling are allowed with the following regulations:

1. The Referee may call 'Halt!' after an unsuccessful period of grappling.
2. Grappling on the opponent's blade is allowed, if the blade is controlled. Seizing of the blade needs to be momentary, and followed by an immediate 'clean' hit to score a point. If the competitor can not achieve a hit consequently to seizing the blade, the Referee will call 'Halt!' and award no points. Failing to control the blade will be counted as a point against the competitor who attempted to enter grappling.

3. Disarming is allowed and scores a point, unless the disarmed fencer immediately (before the referee calls 'Halt!') controls the opponent's weapon and enters grappling.

4. If a fencer accidentally drops the weapon, or falls without the opponent's interaction, the Referee shall call 'Halt!'. A hit that started before the fencer obviously lost the weapon should be counted as valid even if it arrives afterwards, but in the spirit of sportsmanship, no intentional new attack should be initiated if the opponent has fallen or lost the weapon.

5. Grappling actions that score a point are:
    1. take-downs and throws followed/accompanied by a simple and immediate hit with the weapon (within a period of fencing time)
    2. controlling the opponent via grappling with or without the weapon, or until the Referee calls 'Halt!'
6. Ground action is not allowed, the Referee shall call “Halt!” when one of the fencers falls to the ground, or whenever the referee is unable to judge the action any more, or when a reasonable time has passed for dominance to apply.

### Forbidden actions

1. Neck-wrenching, lifting the opponent off the ground, full application of joint locks, small-joint manipulation, or other potentially dangerous wrestling techniques, punching, kicking, violent jostling, and throwing the weapon are strictly forbidden.

2. Excessive force, brutality or unnecessary violence are forbidden.

3. Hitting the back of the head the spine, the back of the knee or the foot is forbidden.

4. Turning the head or covering a valid target with a non-valid one belongs to the first group of offences.

5. Hitting the arena floor with any weapon due to bad measure in an action will be penalised according to the first group of offences (cases resulting from the opponent’s interactions, and accidental light touches may be disregarded by the Referee).

6. It is forbidden to hit with the cross-guard; and in all circumstances, to hit the back of the head, spine and back of the knee, and the foot of the opponent and will be penalised.
