longsword.md, before:

# Longsword competitions

## Rules of hit validity and fencing actions

1. All hits made with the true edge, the false edge, and the tip of the blade are valid if they are performed in such a way that it would have caused a wound to an unarmoured opponent, had the weapon been sharp. Hits performed with the flat may be counted, if they bear the characteristics of a coordinated and potent technique. It is up to the referee’s discretion to judge the validity of hits.

2. Hits through the blade, that is to say those which bend over the opponent’s blade or cross-guard, are not considered to be valid. However, the referee may count a hit as valid, if the opponent’s blade has not closed the line of the attack, and it touches at the same time the valid target and the weapon of the opponent, whenever they arrive clearly on the target.

3. The target includes the whole of the fencer’s body, including the handle of the weapon, clothing, and safety equipment, except for the back of the head, spine, the feet, and the back of the knees.

4. Hits performed with the pommel to other parts than the uncovered mesh part of the opponent's mask are not penalised but also gain no point.

## *Vor* (priority)

1. The Referee alone decides as to the validity or the priority (*Vor*) of the hit by applying the following basic rules which are the conventions applicable to longsword fencing:
    1. Any attack properly executed must be parried, or completely avoided, and the phrase must be continuous.
    2. The attack is correctly carried out when the straightening of the arm, with the point or the edge continuously threatening the valid target, precedes the initiation of the footwork action.
    3. An attack with a lunge (or other offensive footwork) is correctly carried out:
        1. in a simple attack when the beginning of the straightening of the arms precedes the launching of the lunge or other offensive footwork, and the hit arrives at the latest when the front foot hits the ground
        2. in a compound attack when the beginning of the straightening of the arms, on the first feint, precedes the launching of the lunge or other offensive footwork, and the hit arrives at the latest when the front foot hits the ground.

2. Actions, simple or compound, steps or feints, which are executed with bent arms, are not considered as attacks but as preparations, laying themselves open to the initiation of the offensive or defensive/offensive action of the opponent. Hits received from attacks/counterattacks initiated during these actions are counted as valid and score a point against the preparing fencer.

3. Attacks with step-forward-lunge or other compound footwork are not defined in this rulebook. Priority is assigned based on the start of the (attack with) lunge other simple offensive footwork, while steps in any case are considered as preparations.

4. In order to judge as to the correctness of an attack the following points must be considered:
    1. If the attack is initiated when the opponent has his point passively in Langort (‘in line’) the attacker must first deflect his opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.
    2. If, when attempting to find the opponent’s blade to deflect it, the blade is not found, the right of attack passes to the opponent.
    3. If the attack is commenced when the opponent’s blade is not in Langort, the attack may be completed either direct, or by a disengagement or by a cutover, or else be preceded by feints which oblige the opponent to parry.
    4. In a compound attack the opponent has the right to stop-hit; but, in order to be valid, the stop hit must precede the last movement of the attack by one period of fencing time, i.e. the stop hit must arrive before the attacker has started the last movement of the attack itself.

5. The parry which disrupts opponents attack gives the right to riposte; a simple riposte may be direct or indirect, but in order to annul any subsequent movement by the attacker, it must be carried out immediately, without any hesitation or pause. However, if the riposte is delayed so that a renewed attack clearly starts before the riposte, then the renewed attack gains priority.

## Close quarter combat

1. Priority ceases to exist when the guards of the opponents have come together, and/or in case of grappling actions. In case the weapons touch *Stercke* on *Stercke*, and a double hit follows immediately, both fencers are called a point against. Otherwise, they may disengage and continue fencing (with priority rules), or enter grappling (with grappling rules).

## Judging of hits

1. When during a phrase both fencers are hit within a period of fencing time there is either a simultaneous action or a double hit:
    1. The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by both fencers; in this case both fencers are called a point against.
    2. The double hit on the other hand, is the result of a clearly faulty action on the part of one of the fencers, according to the rules. Therefore, when there is not an interval of fencing time between the hits.

2. The fencer who is attacked is alone counted as hit:
    1. if he makes a counter-attack on his opponent’s simple attack
    2. if, instead of parrying, he attempts to avoid the hit and does not succeed in doing so
    3. if, after making a successful parry, he makes a momentary pause (delayed riposte) which gives his opponent the right to renew the attack (redoublement, or remise, or reprise)
    4. if, during a compound attack, he makes a stop hit without being in time
    5. if, having his point ‘in line’ and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the blade which deflects his blade, he attacks or places his point in line again instead of parrying a direct hit made by his opponent

3. The fencer who attacks is alone counted as hit:
    1. If he initiated his attack when his opponent had his point ‘in line’, without deflecting the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.
    2. If he attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (due to the opponent's avoiding reaction) and continues the attack.
    3. If, during a compound attack, he allows his opponent to find the blade, and continues the attack while his opponent ripostes immediately.
    4. If, during a compound attack, he bends his arm or makes a momentary pause, during which time the opponent makes a stop hit or an attack while the attacker continues his own attack.
    5. If, during a compound attack, he is stop-hit one period of fencing time before he makes his final movement.
    6. If he makes a hit by a renewed attack following a parry by his opponent which has been followed by a riposte which is immediate, simple and executed in one period of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.

4. When there is a double hit, and if the Referee is unable clearly to judge from which side the fault has come, he must the referee must not assign any points.

5. In cases when a stop hit is made and there is doubt as to whether it was made sufficiently in time in relation to the final movement of a compound attack, the double hit often occurs through the fault of both fencers concerned. Since this is clearly not a tactically symmetrical case, the referee should assign no points. (The fault of the attacker consists of indecision, slowness of execution or the making of feints which are not sufficiently effective. The fault of the defender lies in delay or slowness in making the stop hit.)

6. Any actions executed while holding the weapon with one hand only, can only score if the fencer does not receive any attack or counterattack with a weapon held with two hands, within one period of fencing time.However if the opponent reacts to the attack with a weapon held in one hand with an attempt to parry, an unsuccessful parry returns the right of initiative to the one-handed hit.

7. In cases when both fencers get hit with a weapon held in one hand within time, the judgment of the action follows regular priority rules.

Commit message:

refactor. Rearrange some rules where they better fit. Move parry description back to Longsword, because there is no right to riposte in other weapons.

longsword.md, after:

# Longsword competitions

## Rules of hit validity and fencing actions

1. All hits made with the true edge, the false edge, and the tip of the blade are valid if they are performed in such a way that it would have caused a wound to an unarmoured opponent, had the weapon been sharp. Hits performed with the flat may be counted, if they bear the characteristics of a coordinated and potent technique. It is up to the referee’s discretion to judge the validity of hits.

2. Hits through the blade, that is to say those which bend over the opponent’s blade or cross-guard, are not considered to be valid. However, the referee may count a hit as valid, if the opponent’s blade has not closed the line of the attack, and it touches at the same time the valid target and the weapon of the opponent, whenever they arrive clearly on the target.

3. The target includes the whole of the fencer’s body, including the handle of the weapon, clothing, and safety equipment, except for the back of the head, spine, the feet, and the back of the knees.

4. Hits performed with the pommel may only count as valid if performed on the uncovered mesh part of the opponent's mask, to any other targets, they don't count as valid.

## *Vor* (priority)

1. The Referee alone decides as to the validity or the priority (*Vor*) of the hit by applying the following basic rules which are the conventions applicable to longsword fencing:
    1. Any attack properly executed must be parried, or completely avoided, and the phrase must be continuous.
    2. The attack is correctly carried out when the straightening of the arm, with the point or the edge continuously threatening the valid target, precedes the initiation of the footwork action.
    3. An attack with a lunge (or other offensive footwork) is correctly carried out:
        1. in a simple attack when the beginning of the straightening of the arms precedes the launching of the lunge or other offensive footwork, and the hit arrives at the latest when the front foot hits the ground
        2. in a compound attack when the beginning of the straightening of the arms, on the first feint, precedes the launching of the lunge or other offensive footwork, and the hit arrives at the latest when the front foot hits the ground.

2. Actions, simple or compound, steps or feints, which are executed with bent arms, are not considered as attacks but as preparations, laying themselves open to the initiation of the offensive or defensive/offensive action of the opponent. Hits received from attacks/counterattacks initiated during these actions are counted as valid and score a point against the preparing fencer.

3. Attacks with step-forward-lunge or other compound footwork are not defined in this rulebook. Priority is assigned based on the start of the (attack with) lunge other simple offensive footwork, while steps in any case are considered as preparations.

4. In order to judge as to the correctness of an attack the following points must be considered:
    1. If the attack is initiated when the opponent has his point passively in Langort (‘in line’) the attacker must first deflect his opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.
    2. If, when attempting to find the opponent’s blade to deflect it, the blade is not found, the right of attack passes to the opponent.
    3. If the attack is commenced when the opponent’s blade is not in Langort, the attack may be completed either direct, or by a disengagement or by a cutover, or else be preceded by feints which oblige the opponent to parry.
    4. In a compound attack the opponent has the right to stop-hit; but, in order to be valid, the stop hit must precede the last movement of the attack by one period of fencing time, i.e. the stop hit must arrive before the attacker has started the last movement of the attack itself.

5. The parry - properly carried out - gives the right to riposte; a simple riposte may be direct or indirect, but in order to annul any subsequent movement by the attacker, it must be carried out immediately, without any hesitation or pause. However, if the riposte is delayed so that a renewed attack clearly starts before the riposte, then the renewed attack gains priority.

6. Against thrusts, and cuts with the edge, the flat, or the back edge of the blade, the object of the parry is to prevent hits made by the opponent arriving on the valid target; therefore:
    1. The parry is properly carried out when, before the completion of the attack, it prevents the arrival of that attack by closing the line in which that attack is to finish.
    2. When a parry is properly executed, the attack by the opponent must be declared parried, and judged as such by the Referee, even if, as a result of its flexibility, the tip of the opponent’s weapon makes contact with the target.

## Close quarter combat

1. Priority ceases to exist when the guards of the opponents have come together, and/or in case of grappling actions. In case the weapons touch *Stercke* on *Stercke*, and a double hit follows immediately, both fencers are called a point against. Otherwise, they may disengage and continue fencing (with priority rules), or enter grappling (with grappling rules).

## Judging of hits

1. When during a phrase both fencers are hit within a period of fencing time there is either a simultaneous action or a double hit:
    1. The simultaneous action is due to simultaneous conception and execution of an attack by both fencers; in this case both fencers are called a point against.
    2. The double hit on the other hand, is the result of a clearly faulty action on the part of one of the fencers, according to the rules. Therefore, when there is not an interval of fencing time between the hits.

2. The fencer who is attacked is alone counted as hit:
    1. if he makes a counter-attack on his opponent’s simple attack
    2. if, instead of parrying, he attempts to avoid the hit and does not succeed in doing so
    3. if, after making a successful parry, he makes a momentary pause (delayed riposte) which gives his opponent the right to renew the attack (redoublement, or remise, or reprise)
    4. if, during a compound attack, he makes a stop hit without being in time
    5. if, having his point ‘in line’ and being subjected to a beat or a taking of the blade which deflects his blade, he attacks or places his point in line again instead of parrying a direct hit made by his opponent

3. The fencer who attacks is alone counted as hit:
    1. If he initiated his attack when his opponent had his point ‘in line’, without deflecting the opponent’s weapon. Referees must ensure that a mere contact of the blades is not considered as sufficient to deflect the opponent’s blade.
    2. If he attempts to find the blade, does not succeed (due to the opponent's avoiding reaction) and continues the attack.
    3. If, during a compound attack, he allows his opponent to find the blade, and continues the attack while his opponent ripostes immediately.
    4. If, during a compound attack, he bends his arm or makes a momentary pause, during which time the opponent makes a stop hit or an attack while the attacker continues his own attack.
    5. If, during a compound attack, he is stop-hit one period of fencing time before he makes his final movement.
    6. If he makes a hit by a renewed attack following a parry by his opponent which has been followed by a riposte which is immediate, simple and executed in one period of fencing time without withdrawing the arm.

4. When there is a double hit, and if the Referee is unable clearly to judge from which side the fault has come, he must the referee must not assign any points.

5. In cases when a stop hit is made and there is doubt as to whether it was made sufficiently in time in relation to the final movement of a compound attack, the double hit often occurs through the fault of both fencers concerned. Since this is clearly not a tactically symmetrical case, the referee should assign no points. (The fault of the attacker consists of indecision, slowness of execution or the making of feints which are not sufficiently effective. The fault of the defender lies in delay or slowness in making the stop hit.)

6. Any actions executed while holding the weapon with one hand only, can only score if the fencer does not receive any attack or counterattack with a weapon held with two hands, within one period of fencing time.However if the opponent reacts to the attack with a weapon held in one hand with an attempt to parry, an unsuccessful parry returns the right of initiative to the one-handed hit.

7. In cases when both fencers get hit with a weapon held in one hand within time, the judgment of the action follows regular priority rules.
